---
description: Continuously improve services to meet the needs of users
---

# 1. User centred design

## Understand user needs

Start by thoroughly understanding the needs and requirements of the solution, including user needs, expectations, and pain points. You can find examples for how to understand user needs in [the implementation playbook.](https://govstack.gitbook.io/implementation-playbook/govstack-implementation-playbook/design-and-delivery/user-journeys)

Collaborate closely with users, stakeholders, and other [team members with diverse multidisciplinary skills](https://app.gitbook.com/o/pxmRWOPoaU8fUAbbcrus/s/4D3oEcPGpYoKnwkQmCzJ/govstack-implementation-playbook/sample-digital-team-composition), throughout the iterative design process to ensure alignment and effective communication. \[resource: implementation playbook on co-design]

Share research findings and product progress with team members, senior members or strategic leaders, and even the general public whenever practical. \[resource on design documentation/sharing with teams]

## Test with users

Conduct user testing with real people and gather feedback at various stages of the design process to identify usability issues, user preferences, and opportunities for improvement. \[Playbook or other resource]

## Iterate based on feedback

Use user feedback to inform iterative design and continuously improve the digital government service, making necessary adjustments to meet the evolving needs of users. \[playbook agile process]

Regularly review and update the design of the digital government service based on user feedback, changing needs, and evolving requirements. \[resource on how teams maintain products?]

Seek input and feedback from diverse user groups, including users with disabilities, to ensure that the digital government service is inclusive and accessible to all. \[Resource on recruiting users]

Continuously monitor and evaluate the performance and usability of the service, and iterate the design accordingly to drive continuous improvement and optimise user experience. \[Resource: creating a performance framework]
