---
description: Balancing technical and user needs
---

# Technology choices

## Balance security and privacy

Choose proportionate security to control and monitor your technology programme. Security should protect your information technology and digital services, and enable users to access the data they need for their work. \[Refer to security document as an example]

Make sure citizens’ rights are protected by integrating privacy as an essential part of your system.

## Optimise performance and connectivity

Optimise load times and page performance

Account for connectivity issues in different regions, considering the deployment options provided by the building blocks.

## Consider integration points

Design the service to work well with other government services, systems, and platforms, using standard data exchange formats and APIs as per the building blocks' recommendations.

Consider potential integration points and interoperability requirements early in the design process, involving relevant stakeholders, including the building blocks development team.

Collaborate with relevant government agencies and stakeholders to align with broader interoperability initiatives and best practices recommended by the building blocks

## Design cross platform

Test the service, verifying its compatibility with different devices, browsers, and assistive technologies.

Follow established standards and guidelines for multi-modal design, ensuring consistency and usability across different interaction modes.

Consider user expectations and preferences for different interaction modes, ensuring inclusivity and accessibility for all users.

Account for potential limitations and constraints of different platforms, systems, and devices, while maintaining interoperability and multi-modality.

#### Considerations:

* Understand your users and their needs. Develop knowledge of your users and what that means for your technology project or programme.
* Make sure your technology, infrastructure and systems are accessible and inclusive for all users.
* Consider using internationalisation and localization best practices to ensure your interfaces can be easily adapted to different languages and cultural contexts. [designing for a global audience.](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/crosscultural-design/)

Resources:

* [GOV.UK Technology Code of Practice](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/the-technology-code-of-practice#define-user-needs)
